# Practice Scrape of Airport Data
## Overview
The objective of this project was to learn ways to extract data quickly from pdfs in order to create a simple chart. When working with straightforward news stories, sometimes one faces a situation when some data is easily available in a conveniet spreadsheet format. But then additional data needed for a simple chart to illustrate the story is only available in pdfs. In this project, data provided by the Finnish airport operator [Finavia](https://www.finavia.fi/en/about-finavia/about-air-traffic/traffic-statistics/traffic-statistics-year) was easily available in Excel format. However, [Port Authority of New York and New Jersey (PANYNJ)](https://www.panynj.gov/airports/en/statistics-general-info.html) had the same data in individual pdf files. To create a chart comparing developments in passenger traffic at Helsinki and JFK airports, I needed to extract the data from the PANYNJ pdfs.
## Technical Description
I used `requests` to download the pdfs at the PANYNJ website. The code for the download is in the `JFK_pdf_scrape` file. Then I used `pdfminer` to parse the pdfs. This code for the download is in the `Script_PDF_turn_into_list` file. The files are in the `notebook`folder.
## Data
The pdfs containing the raw data are in the `raw_data` folder in the `JFK_traffic_stat` folder. The same folder also contains the Excel file that has the data I used to create the two charts used in the article. Initially PANYNJ contained data for the eleven first months of 2022. The file containing traffica data for December was published shortly before the end of the project. I simply inserted the data for December into the Excel file by hand. Hence, the notebooks for the downloading and parsing of the pdfs are based on the pdfs covering the first eleven months of 2022.
## Visualization
 I used Datawrapper to create the charts. Links to the charts are [here](https://datawrapper.dwcdn.net/C1gsO/4/) and [here](https://datawrapper.dwcdn.net/dIebF/4/). I considered the option of doing the charts with `ggplot2`, and for learning purposes I created a notebook that contains the code for a chart with `ggplot2`. That chart and `csv` files I used in creating the chart are in the `ggplotting_bar_chart` folder.
## Webpage
The code and images for the webpage are in the `docs` folder. The webpage is [here](https://juhanarossi.github.io/PANYNJ-airport-stat-scrape/). I worked with `css` and created a style sheet through trial and error. It was a laborious task involving much trying, failing and trying again, but as with the other parts of the project, I slowly worked my way through and I learnt a little more about the basics of `html` and `css`.
## Lessons Learned
This project was modest in its ambition. I wanted to develop techniques to download pdfs and extract data from them for simple charts when the turnaround time is short. I did that gained some useful experience, so in this respect the project served its purpose.
